all other buttons are assignable. by connecting to the controller with a web app by its network, you can assign each of the buttons. (meaning there are 36 different assignable buttons, 9 per menu). here the options for assigning a button: 
effect cc - pressing it will send a cc message (like F#3). this means the controller will also listen for a return F#3 (0-127) so it can update the controller internal record of whether this effect is on or off (even if its been changed without the controller). save effects statuses per each button that is assigned to a cc. the colored rectangle of its status should always update to the effect status between two colors, which can also be chosen by the user with the web app. in sum, the user can change the CC code (ex. G#5), on/off hex color, text for the effect OR upload a low res image for what would be shown on the screen
action cc - (uses: tempo tap, tuner) this is similar to the CC. button will send a CC midi message (like C#1). only difference is that it won't listen for the returning midi message. user can choose 2 colors for the status color rectangle, where it is on color a by default and color b if the button is currently pressed (not based on a midi listen). in sum, the user can change the CC code (ex. G#5), on/off hex color, text for the effect OR upload a low res image for what would be shown on the screen
program change - pressing it will send a pc message (like 1,2,4). the controller will also listen for program changes and save the current program number (this time theres only one stored variable for the entire thing). the colored rectangle of its status should always update to the current program patch between two colors, which can also be chosen by the user with the web app. example: if existing program number = program number assigned to this button, show color B.  in sum, the user can change the program number (ex. 3), on/off hex color, text for the patch OR upload a low res image for what would be shown on the screen
expression pedal type - see later
nothing - this button will do nothing on that specific menu

on the web app, users can also have the option to set a secondary action when the button is held down. if this is chosen, this mean that the normal function will wait on a button release instead of inital push. secondary actions can be any one of the three functions, doing the same thing as before. the difference is that secondary actions won't have it's status color shown on screen and can only be displayed as text and not an image. the text will sit under the main action saying "Hold for _____". add an additional field just for secondary actions for the time you have to hold the button for (default 1.5 seconds)

on the web app, have a clear ui where it shows the 9 assignable buttons and drop downs for the type of action is should do as well as an option below to "add a secondary action", showing a tab system to switch between the primary and secondary action settings (button to remove secondary action on the bottom". Then a tab on the very top to switch between the four possible menus.

this means in theory there should be a maximum total of 72 different actions (36 primary, 36 secondary) possible.

on the right of the web app (and also the display) is information for the potentiometer. if the expression pedal is plugged in (another gpio pin) show the status of the expression pedal in a vertical bar with a label on the top. if the expression pedal is not plugged in, do not show this bar and resize the 10 other panels accordingly. the control is determined by any expression pedal type push button and its default value. on the web app, users can control how much space on the right the pedal display takes up.

on the web app, users can change these settings for the expression pedal button type (examples, buttons to change for the expression pedal to be volume, pitch, or wah):
cc message (change cc like G#2)
label: can be text or low res image that will be shown on the panel and also on the right with the expression bar if that expression mode is active
hex color (the color to be shown on the right and on the color bar for the button panel)
value map (two ints; what the minimum and maximum value should be. default 0 and 127)
bool: reverse (if not active, pedal down is min, pedal up is max. if active its the opposite)
bool: has home value
int: home value (only if above bool is active). if this expression pedal is not selected, exponentially send cc messages to return this value back to its home value (if further away it should be move faster, closer to value is slower change). if there is a home value, on display, render the bar as a distance to the home value (shown as a line). if there isn't, show the bar as a distance from the bottom (reverse false) or top (reverse true)